thank you
two years ago I began an experiment that
I will not survive to see through to the
finish in the city of Berlin I released
100 cameras each of which has a hundred
year long exposure the cameras are very
simple necessarily so and cheap to make
they are pinhole cameras that instead of
using film which would obviously spoil
rather quickly use ordinary black paper
which as i'm sure you all know from
experience if you leave it out it will
fade in sunlight and so essentially what
is happening is that you have a pinhole
that's projecting an image onto the
paper and fading the image that is being
projected very very gradually and one of
the things that's curious about this to
me is that when you place one of these
cameras somewhere out in the wild you
are not only getting an image of an
object of a building for instance in
fact what you're getting is an image of
change over time if you think about a
basketball game for instance where
you'll see a player moving very quickly
almost a ghost against a background
where the court is very strongly and
boldly in focus you get an idea of what
might happen over a hundred years where
a building is
torn down after twenty and another one
goes up in its place and remains there
for the remaining 80 years and therefore
in the image you have the entire process
the entire story and so these were the
cameras that I offered with a deal that
I made to anyone who wanted one they
were to give me a deposit of 10 euros
and to take a camera and hide it
somewhere in Berlin tell nobody where it
was including me and as they got to be
very old or within their will they were
to reveal to a child where the camera
had been hidden and the child would then
take responsibility for it so that in
the year 21 14 the child will be
responsible for retrieving the camera
and bringing it back to the alternative
gallery where I started the project a
gallery called team Titanic and there
will be an exhibition of these hundred
or 10 or 1 or non of the images that
eventually come in I
thought of these cameras and talked
about them quite a lot within the media
as an essential part of the process and
of the project because while their
actual location is unknown it seemed
really important to me that people know
that they're out there and what I talked
about was that they were surveillance
cameras in the hands of those not yet
born that were watching us watching the
city and watching everyone in it as a
what about their business and in a sense
would be a means by which to
provide a sort of a
paranoia perhaps or at least some sort
of sense of responsibility through the
fact that you're being watched and what
what you do the choices that you make
ultimately are going to be revealed not
in terms of any individual image of you
but in terms of how the city changes as
a whole and so these cameras were
released out into the city and as I said
I have no idea where they've gone and
they will become
something potentially interesting to
urban planners a century from now but i
think they are actually going to be more
interesting in the short term for us who
are able to
imagine what is happening within the
camera knowing that it's there and
therefore being able to see out a
hundred years in the future by imagining
what in a hundred years might
potentially be shown
so naturally when you start with a
hundred if you're using a base-10 system
you end up getting ambitious and you
want to go for a thousand and that is
what happened to me in 2015
I realized that the camera that i could
make would probably not look like this a
tin would probably not last and the
paper would probably get soggy and so
instead I went for something that was I
won't call it higher tech it might
impact be lower tech because what i did
was i looked to sources such as
archaeology and art history to help me
to figure out what sort of an object was
sort of capsule might last that might be
able to provide some sort of image if
everything goes well over a period of a
millennium and so what that meant was
making it out of copper material that is
known very well to take on a patina that
becomes protective in a way that the
camera ultimately will effectively stop
aging after a certain number of years as
it takes on that crust of age and yet of
course that isn't so good for the
pinhole which is the same as a pinhole
in the hundred-year camera but in this
case if the aperture is pierced through
24 karat gold and then there is the
emulsion in that case I look to the
Renaissance to Renaissance oil painting
techniques into the fact that we know on
the one hand that they are incredibly
stable painting on copper using a
technique that involves rubbing garlic
into the metal and various other arcane
processes we know that will last and at
the same time we know that the image is
fugitive that is to say that from art
conservation studies we know very well
that what tends to happen is that the
paintings in museums will fade and
that's what we want in this case it
actually is a good thing and so what i
did was i used a certain oil paint which
was painted on the back and started to
take some pictures in this case looking
at a thousand years rather than a
hundred it's a rather different sort of
a proposition it's not really about
urban planning in your neighborhood it's
a much grander view of the city and how
the city changes over time or how nature
does so and so there are two of these
cameras that i have since installed one
of which is overlooking the lovely
tempe skyline built into the Arizona
State University Art Museum and a second
one is looking out on a more natural
landscape the holyoke range in
Massachusetts built into a steeple at
Amherst College and these cameras will
well probably they won't work there are
so many reasons why and we would be here
all day if I were to start to enumerate
them but you can imagine all the reasons
why they might not and yet at the same
time they could and I think that there
is something really interesting to me
about what happened when you place one
of these cameras out in the world and
make it into in this case a public sort
of a space in which people can see the
camera look out on the landscape see
that far future through the eyes of
those who might see that camera open it
up a thousand years from now and
therefore be able to have a sort of
binocular vision through time this
vision looking out into the future and
back upon our own time from the
standpoint of the future in ways that
might inform for instance how we go
about building more sustainable
sustainable cities and also how we go
about the broader problems that are
inherent in how we deal with carbon and
how we handle the climate a sense of
responsibility once again but here it
really becomes global so where do we go
from here
well it happens to be that is Barry
alluded to a few minutes ago
simultaneous with these two projects I
was writing a book a book that
coincidentally has just been released
this week which is called you belong to
the universe and is about buckminster
fuller a theme of this conference
looking at his ideas and thinking about
how those ideas built up in his own time
what impact they had and what impact
they might have in the future and how we
might apply them how we might reconsider
them in our own time and there are many
very obvious sorts of inventions that I
about in the book such as his three
wheel Dymaxion car but the one that
really strikes me above all in certain
ways is one that was addressed at least
in brief this morning which is not so
well known and that is the gia scope
the gia scope originated as a
as a process that fuller undertook
during World War two working for the
u.s. government where he had a globe and
was responsible for figuring out
logistics figuring out how to get
materials from one place to another in
terms of use of the Navy and so what he
did was he had a bowl that he was able
to place over the globe and to draw
lines that were what are referred to as
great circles and those circles were
shipping routes but also what happened
was as he looked at it he realized that
they were polygons that might be the
basis for unfolding the globe and
creating a new kind of map what became
the Dymaxion world map which was an
equal area projection map that avoided a
lot of the problems of distortion that
had been the case in many maps that
preceded it but he also had another
thought well looking at this globe and
all the lines inscribed on it and that
was what if the lines were made out of
metal
great circles are also known as
geodesics and you can guess what I'm
never talking about the geodesic dome
was a result of his explorations of
logistics and it was a structure of
course that has gone around the world
from everything from a
trade pavilion to hippie housing and
yet at the same time it also ended up
getting used in a curious way an
unexpected way that makes perfect sense
when you realize what its origin was and
that is to say he started to put
continents on to it in a sort of a mesh
that would allow you to get inside of it
looking out and to have the experience
of being in an outdoor planetarium at
night being able to see the stars
relative to the continents and to get a
real sense of the entire planet so to
this he started to add what he called
data planes ways in which to be able to
see what you could not ordinarily such
as the distribution of minerals in
Earth's crust and that led to as tends
to be the case with everything that
fuller did more and more grandiose ideas
you could make it so that it was totally
computerized you could have it so that
it would have a system of lights and it
became ultimately something that was
proposed to the United Nations that this
would be a 200-foot sphere that would be
put over the East River in view of the
UN world headquarters where people
inside would be able to see patterns
that otherwise would be invisible that
but that were absolutely essential all
gleaned from a worldwide network of
sensors a everything from patterns to do
with energy usage to patterns to do with
military build ups and human migration
well needless to say if you've ever been
to New York you will know it never
happened it costs way too much money it
was in the I think he quoted ten million
dollars in his optimistic way and also
there was the inherent problem and so
much of what fuller came up with that
was very much true with this project
that it was something that probably
could not have been done in his time the
networks were not in place nor were the
sensors well they are today in a way
that we're all very familiar with by way
of the world wide web and so suddenly it
becomes possible to do what he
envisioned and also I believe it has
become much more important much more
necessary to do so not only for the
relatively obvious reason that the
world's resources are even more
imperiled and that patterns are ever
more complex sheer complexity of how we
interact in modern society but also
because it seems to me that we have
access to all of this data or a lot of
it and we have access to it in ways that
are beautifully visualized in many cases
but unfortunately we all live within our
own
focus bubble as it's sometimes called
that is to say we all are seeing what we
want to see instead of having that sort
of global vision the presence that you
might have with a geo scope and yet I
think that there's something that is
inherently flawed about having one geo
scope in Manhattan that is something
that is seen only by the privileged few
happen to be there by the world's
leaders and instead I think that given
the possibilities of technology today
that we can start thinking about a Geo
scope in a much smaller more modest
scale as a
monument but a small one in cities all
over this is all over the country and
all over the world I envision it being
something that might be situated within
a data park so to take the example of
San Francisco a data park would
essentially be the city in miniature
that would have the same contours the
same hills and valleys and would be a
means by which you could project from
above using projectors that would be
mounted on pillars projecting what was
happening in the city both immediately
in terms of microclimates and also more
broadly in terms of patterns of
gentrification and that this could be
simultaneous with what was being seen
globally on the gia scope that you would
be able to start to make these
correspondences with in your city of
what was happening worldwide and what
was happening locally and that would
allow you to start to operate because
this would be a sort of acidic space a
data Commons literally a place where
people could come together it would
allow for a sort of confluence of
conversation and confluence of interests
well quite frankly I have no idea how to
do it technically speaking I have a
soldering iron at home but I don't
really have the coding skills and
various other things such as a park in
which to build in that is one reason why
I mention it to you here today is case
any of you might want to get involved in
this project because I do think that it
is feasible in San Francisco and becomes
potentially something that can happen
elsewhere if only we get the right Civic
and technological backing for it but I
mentioned it also because I want to come
back around to what I was speaking of
earlier which is to say that I think the
data visualization was absolutely
essential in our world in order to be
able to see and make sense of patterns
but I would argue that it is equally
important that we cultivate what i would
call data imagination that is to say the
ability not only to see things as
represented by somebody interpreting
what is happening in the world but the
ability to conjure in your mind what
might not be visible because it hasn't
yet happened and that is where what i
was speaking about earlier the idea of
deep time photography potentially comes
in as something to supplement the gia
scope as a second area a second level of
engagement with our cities and with a
natural environment and so I'm also
putting out to you another idea this is
all open source and of course I've done
it all wrong in the first few prototypes
and it will take tens of thousands of
years to get it right but with more
people involved we might be able to get
there faster as well what I would
propose is that we have in every city in
every town one of these Millennium
cameras someplace public someplace it's
central to the town where everybody is
able to see it and to engage in it and
that these also be in places such as the
rainforests and also Antarctica that
they be not only places that we
necessarily go but places that we don't
where we are aware because of the global
way in which what we do affects
everything around us that that too is
being watched and there's a way in which
thus far future is watching us and we
are able to see ourselves through their
eyes
but I think it also has to be more
participatory that is to say that I
think that the century camera project in
Berlin can become a model for another
aspect of this vision that is to say
that probably making them out of tin is
not a great idea too expensive and all
the rest but i think that there's an
even easier and cheaper way of going
about it
namely out of cardboard I made this as a
model that was a
part of the exhibition at Amherst
College and people actually made them
and in western Massachusetts that
probably are a few sad examples of this
camera which essentially you cut out
glue poke a hole in and then you put it
out in the world there probably are
examples out there that are getting
rained upon and frankly we printed a
couple hundred of them I would be
surprised if I were alive to be
surprised if any of them survived they
won't but once we start getting into big
numbers things change so what I am
envisioning is that this or something
like it become a birthright then every
child throughout the world be given one
of these cameras to make and to place
and then to go through the exercise
without the 10 euro deposit but
nevertheless with a rest intact to put
it someplace that they deem to be
important to them looking out on
something that they want either to
preserve or to change and therefore to
engage them in the process of stasis and
of change but also to provide this sort
of global pervasive surveillance the
worst thing I can possibly imagine
except when it gets into this sort of
role where it's working for the next
generation and where what happens is
that these cameras are coming in every
day starting a hundred years from now
and also are going out into the world
and becomes a process that becomes not
only a mechanism for data imagination
but also for us to be able to interact
with it to see that data in place
because it can become part of the fabric
of the Geo scope itself of these data
parks are these local and global
visualizations that becomes a way in
which we are able to enter into this
very fuller esque way in which we can
see the entire world in spatial terms
but we can also start to see through
time and to place ourselves with in
space and time in ways that can build a
greater sense of responsibility and make
us better more significant and yet more
responsible citizens in our future world
Society I will leave you with that and I
thank you very much for your time
[Applause]